Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin, and we're going to be
discussing the path that Bitcoin has
taken under various presidents. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on intothecryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Also, don't forget to check out the
upcoming ITC conference that will be
held in Miami um from November 20th
through the 22nd. So, make sure you guys
check that out. Link is in the
description below.
Now,
we don't really talk about politics
here, uh but I thought it might be
interesting to look at the path that
Bitcoin has taken
under different presidents. Now, it
hasn't existed all that long, so we
don't have a ton of different presidents
to look at, but what's really
interesting is that the last two paths
are very different than the first two.
So,
if you look at what Bitcoin did under
Obama in
and under Trump in 2017, you can see
that the paths were relatively similar.
Now, Bitcoin did underperform under
Trump's first term than Obama. However,
with an increasing market cap, we know
you would expect diminishing returns.
Right? That's probably not as much of a
presidential effect as as it is just
hey, as the asset gets bigger, you're
not going to see as large of returns.
What's interesting, though, is that
Obama's first or Obama's second term
and Trump's first term,
Bitcoin did really, really well.
But then under Biden
and Trump's second term, it's like the
opposite.
Now, what do you think about what did
you what changed in this term
and the last one
compared to the two that came before it?
Well, I think that the macro shifted
some.
Inflation wasn't as big of a concern,
you know, back then. The unemployment
rate wasn't as big of a concern back
then. We did have the pandemic, but that
was not really a a durable increase in
the unemployment rate.
So, I think that changed.
But, what's really fascinating is
despite the different path that Bitcoin
took in
Obama's second term versus Trump's first
term,
the end result was essentially the same.
You can see that they basically ended up
uh with about the same return um because
Bitcoin did get that surge near the end
of Trump's first term.
Now, if you look at Biden's term
and Trump's second term, you can see
they look kind of similar.
Bitcoin didn't really do as well. Like,
compare these two to either Obama's term
or Trump's first term.
You can see that these last two have
left a lot to be desired.
And what's interesting is that right now
under Trump, this is exactly for the
most part this is where we were at this
point under Biden as well.
After this many days, after 524 days
under Biden,
um Bitcoin's return was -43.8%.
Um
yeah, -40 40
43.8%.
Under Trump after 524 days, -41.1%.
So, despite all the political
differences
despite you know everything is different
the return for Bitcoin at this point in
Trump's presidency is actually nearly
the same as it was under
Biden's presidency
and what ended up happening is that
Bitcoin kind of stalled out for the
summer had a little bit of a counter
trend rally in like late July early
August and then it sold off and then it
had one final drop we formed the low and
then we went into the next bull market
so I thought this was interesting
because it really goes to show like just
how remarkably similar cycles can be
to expand on that
if you were to change this from Bitcoin
to the dollar
you'll see something really interesting
so recently the dollar's been going up
I've been calling for it to go up for
all year
you see the dollar how it's been moving
up under Donald Trump's second term look
at what it was doing at this point under
Trump's first term
the same thing right when Donald Trump
took president became president back in
his first term the dollar sold off
immediately
formed base and then went up
begrudgingly for a while and that's
exactly what we did this time too
right
it's the same thing Trump became
president in 2017
the dollar sold off for a year
we went sideways and then it started to
go up
it's remarkable how similar it is in
fact if you look at the dollar
the Dixie
when you look at at where it topped like
the month
that it topped it topped in January 2017
and over here it was January 2025
and then it bottomed out in the early
part like January February of 2018, and
then you found a low here in what,
February 2026.
And what happened is the dollar went
back up.
Right?
And then it kind of begrudgingly went
higher for a while. So, you'll probably
see something similar.
And my guess is that the dollar will
likely head kind of back up to that 105,
106 area. And that might continue to be
a macro headwind for for crypto, you
know, in in sort of later in the year.
But it is interesting. And we'll do more
videos on this looking at different
assets as well. If you guys want access
to this tool where you can kind of go in
and look at different assets and and how
they played out under different
presidencies, you can do that again, I
said, uh into the cryptoverse.com. Make
sure you guys check that out. Uh but
we'll wrap it up there. I mean, I I
think that covered what I wanted to
cover. It just shows you how
for Bitcoin, you know, it's easy to let
politics
um warp your view of certain assets, but
what's fascinating is
Bitcoin's return under both Biden and
Trump has been really similar. And it
was also really similar under Trump's
first term and Obama's second term.
I think the main thing that changed was
just the macro. That's sort of the macro
outlook on stuff. And and that's kind of
affected some of these sort of higher
risk assets. Because when inflation is a
problem, when the unemployment rate is
is not as
is not trending down, then it calls into
question, all right, you know, maybe
maybe these riskier assets won't won't
do as well for a little while. It
doesn't mean they're not going to ever
do well again. It just means that you
could probably find a reason sort of
justify
why they haven't done as well. So, just
keep that in mind. You know, Bitcoin
doesn't have to be a political thing. I
mean, I know it kind of
sometimes kind of becomes one, but
I would argue that that Bitcoin could be
for people
who hold various political views.
Um
So, we'll see if we'll see if this
continues to play out and and if it sort
of mirrors what we saw in the last
cycle. And if it does, then you would
expect Bitcoin to bottom out uh later in
the year and then begin the next bull
market into 2027. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe, give
the video a thumbs up, and also check
out the first ITC conference. Again,
November 20th through the 22nd. You can
find it at benjamincowen.com/conference.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.